# June 10th, 2020

# Some concerns for implementation
- Normally I should really consider making the length of integration known at compile time. But due to the nature of my code I feel like doing this in runtime would be good for now. Really should change this in the optimization stage though.
    - We could always just *always* set iteration length to some number and change the step size instead. 
- I was really confused as to how this trajectory tracer would behave. My current ideas are as follows:
    - We initialize this class with a specified longitude, latitude, altitude (, local zenith angle and local azimuthal angle) and some particle from Particle class
    - convert these information into spherical coordinates
    - perform *only one iteration of* integration
    - get back the 6-D coordinates (**r,p**)
    - check if:
        - the particle's rigidity is < cutoff rigidity
        - particle's velocity is > escape velocity of Earth
        - particle's position is <= sea level
    - then depending on these conditions, either:
        - append to our existing list of coordinate and momenta arrays and continue onwards
        - append to our existing list of coordinate and momenta arrays and end iteration process

## Today's progress
- Ive implemented the Trajectory class in a very rough fashion. This works as I mentioned above. But it really needs more polishing.
- Also created the particle dictionary creator that adds particles to some global dictionary
- When testing this, the output did seem like some trajectory. Whether this is correct or not is another question...
    - I'll make sure to check this tomorrow. 
    - Need to make sure of the units. Right now radius is in R_E, theta, phi are in radians (in which they should be.)
- I also didnt implement the vertical rigidity cutoff, this requires a lot more work
    - need to make momentum settable as well, which im not sure how to do currently

## For tomorrow:
- make sure that what I am outputting is right, otherwise change this
- Clean up a bit of the code
- implement the rigidity cutoff
    