# June 11th, 2020

### Some notes
- I was really confused as to how the start and stopping altitudes should be set. I copied those from Baldini's review for now but I have no idea why he chose these values.
- The conditions that I should apply (rigidity cutoff etc) to me are still not clear, literature reading is still required

### What is already good
- the particle library
    - this I am already solid on, it has great utility as a class
    - but I should think of making setters and getters more concrete (check impy maybe?)
- the particle dictionary setter
    - pretty simple script but it works
    - I can do something with classes instead, but Ill do that when the time comes
- the runge_kutta integrator
    - it works as it should
    - minor modifications (ex moving functions around) could be done but for now this works
- the test files

### What should and needs to be looked into
- the trajectory maker
    - My goals in this is still blurry, need a more concrete focus on what this thing does
    - also my lack of information regarding cosmic rays are hindering the consistency of the code (ex. limitations on certain values)

So I really need to study more literature on this before getting back into it. As of now the code does run and outputs some sort of trajectory path, however i do not know if it is even remotely close to correct or not, as there is this weird duplication behaviour in the output. Hence more literature reading is necessary before moving on.

### Progress today
- When i fixed the radii to km (not in terms of earth radii), the weird duplication behaviour is removed and a more proper trajectory is shown (i.e. looks like a particle trajectory). I think this fixes most issues, however I am not 100% confident that this is really correct. Why:
    - still have no idea about the vertical rigidity cutoff, right now I just made it so that loop ends when particle rigidity < vertical rigidity cutoff.
        - possibly have to use the formal form of geomagnetic rigidity cutoff instead as VRC only applies for local zenith
- I looked into the article about numerical ray tracing, and the equation of motion they have for charged particles are different from what I have. Not too sure how those other terms came to be...
    - $\begin{array}{l}\frac{\mathrm{d} v_{r}}{\mathrm{d} t}=\frac{e\left(v_{\theta} B_{\phi}-v_{\phi} B_{\theta}\right)}{m c}+\frac{v_{\theta}^{2}}{r}+\frac{v_{\phi}^{2}}{r} \\
\frac{\mathrm{d} v_{\theta}}{\mathrm{d} t}=\frac{e\left(v_{\phi} B_{r}-v_{r} B_{\phi}\right)}{m c}-\frac{v_{r} v_{\theta}}{r}+\frac{v_{\phi}^{2}}{r \tan \theta} \\
\frac{\mathrm{d} v_{\phi}}{\mathrm{d} t}=\frac{e\left(v_{r} B_{\theta}-v_{\theta} B_{r}\right)}{m c}-\frac{v_{r} v_{\phi}}{r}-\frac{v_{\theta} v_{\phi}}{r \tan \theta}
\end{array}$
    - Its those extra terms at the end that I havent a clue why its there...

- For particle trapping, many programs implement the guided-center approach. But we are simulating cosmic rays, so do we need this approach as well (i.e. do we need to simulate particle trapping to that extent as well??)

- I really need to figure out the equation of motion for relativistic particles, as thats what cosmic rays indeed are. 


## Next Steps
- ~~try out the equation of motion above and see the output, see if its any different~~ when implementing this, the trajectories look much better, and more similar to the ones from Baldini. We will stick with these differential equations for our simulation
    - the source of these equations are [here](https://www.dartmouth.edu/~sshepherd/research/Shielding/docs/Smart_00.pdf). seems like $m$ is the relativistic mass in here (i.e. $m = \gamma m_0$). So we should implement this somehow. 
- Since we are using the ideal dipole approximation, we can figure out an analytical solution. so we should do that and compare it to the result.
- somehow integrate this for a relativistic particle


## After talk with Anatoli...
- reaffirmed what the goals of the project were:
    - we want to perform a global tracking simulation for neutrinos in the end
- since we borrowed some stuff from Baldini, we should check the licensing, this would be a big problem since he uses GNU, which means we have to use GNU license too.
    - better to use MIT / BSDv3 since it allows anyone to do anything with it instead.
- FOr particle trapping, considering drift and all is not that important, if we observe that it is trapped, then loop termination is all thats required.
- No need for guided-center approach using gyroradius and stuff. 
- To implement the geomagnetic cutoff, we want to do the following:
    - choose some location based on the longitude, latitude, and altitude.
    - simulate a particle trajectory for any azimuthal and zenith angle local to the detector
    - check if the trajectories are forbidden (i.e. if they land back on Earth or not)
    - do this for different energies and different locations
        - for locations, Kamioka and IceCube are good locations since they probably have the geomagnetic cutoff data somewhere
    - in the end, we want to output a heatmap for this geomagnetic cutoff 
    - We should also be able to determine, if there are allowed trajectories from the ground, at which longitude and latitude it originated from.
- For the coordinate stuff, Anatoli said to check out MCEq.
- Later on when we implement the actual magnetic field, we can compare the results with the dipole approximation.
- HE also wants me to make these journals more not to date but rather (probably) in a more concise format with ideas all in one document.
    - I will probably throw out my thoughts in this date format, as I have been before, but I will also make another document that is more structured to topics / progression and add dates within the document.
    - He also wants me to add plots / formulas / links etc that will provide to be useful when discussing topics.

## More next steps
- Restructure the markdown file formatting and compile ideas to several files.
- check out the licensing and think about alternatives?
- clean up the code a bit so that its nicer to implement the new stuff
- start to implement the zenith angle stuff.